# bizCase-01-target-brazilian-ecommerce

## Business Problem:
Target is one of the world’s most recognized brands and one of America’s leading retailers. This business case has information of 100k orders from 2016 to 2018 made at Target in Brazil. Its features allows viewing an order from multiple dimensions: from order status, delivery time, order price, payment details, freight performance and customer location. We have to generate business insights and provide recommendations (backed by data) using this dataset.

## bizCase Highlights:
- We have used BigQuery(SQL) to study the data stored across multiple tables.
- We have used Tableau for creating plots to communicate the business insights and recommendations.
- We have uploaded 2 pdf files:
  - targetSQL_bizCase_complete.pdf: Contains the entire business case with plots, figures and reasoning behind our conclusions.
  - targetSQL_queries.pdf: Contains just the SQL queries.
  
## Studying the dataset and generating insights & recommendations:
- **Studying the data (using SQL)**
  - Data type of the columns in all table.
  - Time period for which the data is given.
  - Cities and states covered in the dataset.
  - Is there a growing trend on e-commerce in Brazil? Can we see some seasonality with peaks at specific months?
  - What time do Brazilian customers tend to buy (Dawn, Morning, Afternoon or Night)?
  - Month on month orders by different states in Brazil.
  - Distribution of customers across the states in Brazil.
  - % increase in cost of orders from 2017 to 2018.
  - Mean & sum of price and freight value by customer state.
  - Analysis on freight and delivery time:
    - Identify the states with highest/lowest average freight values.
    - Identify the states with highest/lowest average delivery time.
    - Identify the states where the delivery is really fast/not so fast compared to estimated date.
  - Analysis on payment type:
    - Month over Month count of orders for different payment types
    - Distribution of payment installments and count of orders
 - **Insights & Recomendations**
   - Stagnation of growth in number of orders in 2018.
   - Identifying the peak season where customers order the most.
     - Stocking of products before peak season to meet demands.
     - Perfect time to launch new products.
   - Identifying the hours in a day where customers place the most/least orders.
     - Peak Hours: Run promotions and campaigns of products.
     - Website maintainence can be run in the hours where the customer activity is the least.
   - Identifying the states where customer count is low.
    - This is an opportunity to onboard new customers in the identified states.
   - Increasing the mean price of orders in the state of SP, Brazil to boost revenue by a large factor.
   - Negative correlation between revenue generated by state and the mean freight price in that state.
     - Often the customer may be discouraged to order an item online just because he feels that the shipping charges are unreasonable.
     - The states having high mean freight price should try to reduce this parameter (warehousing can be an option).
